# CryptoClustering
## Task overview
In this challenge, you’ll use your knowledge of Python and unsupervised learning to predict if cryptocurrencies are affected by 24-hour or 7-day price changes.

## Instructions summary
1. Load and prepare the data.
2. Scale the data using StandardScaler.
3. Find the best value for k using the elbow method and using the original scaled DataFrame
5. Cluster cryptocurrencies with K-means using the original scaled data.
6. Optimise Clusters with Principal Component Analysis to reduce the features to three principal components.
7. Find the best value for k using the PCA data.
8. Cluster cryptocurrencies with K-means using the PCA data.
9. Visualize and compare the results using hvPlot.

## My Conclusion
The elbow curves can be seen to have similar results however the inertia for the PCA data is lower than the K-means data. The cluster plot using K-means has significnatly reduced results/markers than the PCA data.
  In the original data we see that the best k value is 4 however when observing the PCA data it can be seen that it's likely 2 because the 2 groups of clusters (yellow and blue) are closer together and easy to identify whilst there's only one marker for the green and red cluster (both also seen to be outliers).  The K-means plot is difficult to read as the clusters are dispersed but as explained above, the PCA cluster analysis is more accurate based on the elbow and scatter plots.

## Dependencies
* Software - Python, Jupyter Notebook
* Libraries - Pandas, NumPy, scikit-learn, hvPlot
* Data - CSV file
  
## References
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
